# ML-GDP
This repository contains the code and data for the research performed as a student of the Young Leaders Program in the School of Government. 
This study applies Random Forest and Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost) machine learning algorithms to forecast the Quarter over Quarter (QoQ) real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in the US from Q1 2010 to Q1 2021.  The study uses the publicly available vintages of archival economic data from the St. Louis Federal Reserve’s Economic Research Division. The forecasts are made on the last Friday of the second and third months of the current quarter, which is approximately two and one months prior to the release of first official GDP figures for that quarter, respectively. The forecasts are compared to the benchmark forecasts for the QoQ growth of US real GDP, made by the New York Federal Reserve (NY Fed) on the same date. The machine learning algorithms use time series cross-validation instead of k-fold cross validation, and the hyperparameters are tuned using a grid search. The study finds that for the period from Q1 2010 to Q1 2021 the forecasts made by the New York Federal Reserve are more accurate as compared to the predictions of machine learning algorithms. This is mainly attributed to the performance difference during the pandemic period (Q1 2020 to Q1 2021). However, the accuracy of forecast for the pre-pandemic period (Q1 2010 to Q4 2019) is better for the random forest algorithm as compared the forecast made by NY Fed. The Random Forest algorithm outperforms the XGBoost algorithm in prediction accuracy. This study suggests that machine learning methods can be used for forecasting important macroeconomic variables like GDP growth.  
